README.md, before:

# ***ripcheck***

## **Fast ARP &amp; TCP Port Checker in Rust version 0.0.15**

*ripcheck* v0.0.17 is now a beta version, and is my first project as a beginner using Rust.

RipCheck only runs on Windows, and currently the original plan for it to build & run on Linux is
on hold due to a number of Windows specific features which are acumulating and the presence
of alternative tools that already work well (enough) on Linux.

**CAUTION:** RipCheck can cause excessive CPU or Network traffic with an injudicious parameter list.

    Option to limit thread count has been added -- **YOU MUST RESTRICT IT** for your environment.

    It may use:

    Hosts * Ports being checked + 1 ARP + 1 Reverse DNS + 1 control thread:
    Hosts * (Ports + 3) unless you set a maximum thread count.

    A /24 bit network will require about 1500 threads to check 3 ports plus ARP and Reverse DNS

### Added an index option --index to insert a numerical column for later sorting (outside of ripcheck)

### Changes to simplify parameter requirements
Several of the parameters names are no longer required for: IPs, Ranges, cidr nets, ports
The parameter names are still accpeted but may may be removed in the future.
It was complicated than necessary and is now far more ergonomic.
Expect future changes.

### DNS, ARP, reverse DNS, and port checks are now separately threaded.

### MAC Vendor lookups are using the (excellent) phf crate

### MAC to vendor table
https://gitlab.com/wireshark/wireshark/-/raw/master/manuf   (42,562 entries 2021-05-01)

### Example:
```
RipCheck 192.168.239.1 --range 192.168.239.10-192.168.239.24 --cidr 192.168.239.28/30 -p 135 445 3389 -R -A -M

IPAddress       Hostname                       MACaddress         MACvendor Port135 Port445 Port3389
192.168.239.10  host.docker.internal                                        true    true    true
192.168.239.30  NPIA9A823                      10-62-e5-a9-a8-23  HewlettP  false   false   false
192.168.239.24  192.168.239.24                 50-87-b8-30-3d-c2  Nuvyyo    false   false   false
192.168.239.12  192.168.239.12                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.14  192.168.239.14                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.19  192.168.239.19                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.13  192.168.239.13                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.11  192.168.239.11                 66-6a-6d-5a-97-7d            false   false   false
192.168.239.16  192.168.239.16                 44-91-60-71-14-dd  MurataMa  false   false   false
192.168.239.15  192.168.239.15                 8c-49-62-13-87-a1  Roku      false   false   false
192.168.239.21  192.168.239.21                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.1   192.168.239.1                  38-80-df-f7-ab-6c  Motorola  false   false   false
192.168.239.29  192.168.239.29                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.17  192.168.239.17                 10-30-47-30-29-77  SamsungE  false   false   false
192.168.239.23  192.168.239.23                 38-6a-77-3d-13-69  SamsungE  false   false   false
192.168.239.18  192.168.239.18                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.22  192.168.239.22                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.20  192.168.239.20                 58-fd-b1-0b-c7-dc  LGElectr  false   false   false

TimeThis :    Start Time :  Sat May 01 12:12:15 2021
TimeThis :      End Time :  Sat May 01 12:12:20 2021
TimeThis :  Elapsed Time :  00:00:05.044```

### Usage: RipCheck --help
```
ripcheck 0.0.16
HerbM <HerbMartin@GMail.com>
Fast ARP & TCP Port Checker in Rust

USAGE:
    ripcheck.exe [FLAGS] [OPTIONS] [--] [TARGETS]...

ARGS:
    <TARGETS>...    Query targets

FLAGS:
    -A, --arp         ARP to resolve MAC address
    -s, --csv         Output CSV results
    -i, --index       Add index column
    -l, --uselocal    Also try local DNS resolver
    -o, --noheader    Omit header from output
    -R, --reverse     Reverse IP to name
    -M, --vendor      Show NIC vendor
    -v, --verbose     Print verbose information
    -h, --help        Prints help information
    -V, --version     Prints version information

OPTIONS:
    -N, --net <CIDR>...              Query network ranges
    -d, --drain <DRAIN>              Drain threads to N% [default: 0]
    -f, --file <FILENAME>            Read targets from file(s)
    -a, --host <HOST>...             Query names or addresses
    -m, --maxthreads <MAXTHREADS>    Maximum thread count [default: 4000]
    -n, --dns <NAMESERVER>...        Nameservers to use
    -p, --port <PORT>...             Ports to test
    -r, --range <RANGE>...           Query Address ranges
    -t, --timeout <TIMEOUT>          Timeout: seconds or milliseconds [default: 4000]
```

Commit message:

RipCheck 0.0.18 Mostly same as .16/.17 Static linked, Limit: CPUThreads * 500

README.md, after:

# ***ripcheck***

## **Fast ARP &amp; TCP Port Checker in Rust version 0.0.15**

*ripcheck* v0.0.18 is now a beta version, and is my first project as a beginner using Rust.

Changed to STATICALLY LINK VCRuntime: https://crates.io/crates/static_vcruntime

RipCheck only runs on Windows, and currently the original plan for it to build & run on Linux is
on hold due to a number of Windows specific features which are accumulating and the presence
of alternative tools that already work well (enough) on Linux.

**CAUTION:** RipCheck can cause excessive CPU or Network traffic with an injudicious parameter list.

    Option to limit thread count has been added -- **YOU MUST RESTRICT IT** for your environment.

    The default limit is 500 threads * CPUThreads

    It may use:

    Hosts * Ports being checked + 1 ARP + 1 Reverse DNS + 1 control thread:
    Hosts * (Ports + 3) unless you set a maximum thread count.

    A /24 bit network will require about 1500 threads to check 3 ports plus ARP and Reverse DNS



### Added an index option --index to insert a numerical column for later sorting (outside of ripcheck)

### Changes to simplify parameter requirements
Several of the parameters names are no longer required for: IPs, Ranges, cidr/nets, ports
The parameter names are still accepted but may may be removed in the future.
It was complicated than necessary and is now far more ergonomic.
Expect future changes.

### DNS, ARP, reverse DNS, and port checks are now separately threaded.

### MAC Vendor lookups are using the (excellent) phf crate

### MAC to vendor table
https://gitlab.com/wireshark/wireshark/-/raw/master/manuf   (42,562 entries 2021-05-01)

### Example:
```
RipCheck 192.168.239.1 --range 192.168.239.10-192.168.239.24 --cidr 192.168.239.28/30 -p 135 445 3389 -R -A -M

IPAddress       Hostname                       MACaddress         MACvendor Port135 Port445 Port3389
192.168.239.10  host.docker.internal                                        true    true    true
192.168.239.30  NPIA9A823                      10-62-e5-a9-a8-23  HewlettP  false   false   false
192.168.239.24  192.168.239.24                 50-87-b8-30-3d-c2  Nuvyyo    false   false   false
192.168.239.12  192.168.239.12                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.14  192.168.239.14                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.19  192.168.239.19                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.13  192.168.239.13                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.11  192.168.239.11                 66-6a-6d-5a-97-7d            false   false   false
192.168.239.16  192.168.239.16                 44-91-60-71-14-dd  MurataMa  false   false   false
192.168.239.15  192.168.239.15                 8c-49-62-13-87-a1  Roku      false   false   false
192.168.239.21  192.168.239.21                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.1   192.168.239.1                  38-80-df-f7-ab-6c  Motorola  false   false   false
192.168.239.29  192.168.239.29                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.17  192.168.239.17                 10-30-47-30-29-77  SamsungE  false   false   false
192.168.239.23  192.168.239.23                 38-6a-77-3d-13-69  SamsungE  false   false   false
192.168.239.18  192.168.239.18                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.22  192.168.239.22                                              false   false   false
192.168.239.20  192.168.239.20                 58-fd-b1-0b-c7-dc  LGElectr  false   false   false

TimeThis :    Start Time :  Sat May 01 12:12:15 2021
TimeThis :      End Time :  Sat May 01 12:12:20 2021
TimeThis :  Elapsed Time :  00:00:05.044```

### Usage: RipCheck --help
```
ripcheck 0.0.16
HerbM <HerbMartin@GMail.com>
Fast ARP & TCP Port Checker in Rust

USAGE:
    ripcheck.exe [FLAGS] [OPTIONS] [--] [TARGETS]...

ARGS:
    <TARGETS>...    Query targets

FLAGS:
    -A, --arp         ARP to resolve MAC address
    -s, --csv         Output CSV results
    -i, --index       Add index column
    -l, --uselocal    Also try local DNS resolver
    -o, --noheader    Omit header from output
    -R, --reverse     Reverse IP to name
    -M, --vendor      Show NIC vendor
    -v, --verbose     Print verbose information
    -h, --help        Prints help information
    -V, --version     Prints version information

OPTIONS:
    -N, --net <CIDR>...              Query network ranges
    -d, --drain <DRAIN>              Drain threads to N% [default: 0]
    -f, --file <FILENAME>            Read targets from file(s)
    -a, --host <HOST>...             Query names or addresses
    -m, --maxthreads <MAXTHREADS>    Maximum thread count [default: 4000]
    -n, --dns <NAMESERVER>...        Nameservers to use
    -p, --port <PORT>...             Ports to test
    -r, --range <RANGE>...           Query Address ranges
    -t, --timeout <TIMEOUT>          Timeout: seconds or milliseconds [default: 4000]
```
